So now that we finished that set up, now that we're able to talk to Firebase and we saw that real time
data in action, let's utilize what we learned to not set up this weird listener when we clicked the
ad button, but to instead output our messages here with the help of the list view builder.
And that will be super, super easy snapshots gives us a stream, as I mentioned.
And a stream is simply a dart object which emits a new value whenever some data source changes, whenever
a data source gives us a new value in the end.
Now that entire stream thing is set up and managed automatically by Firebase Bidart firestorm packaged
by the cloud firestorm package, we added.
So that's very convenient.
We don't need to do anything.
They're even better than that.
Flutter has a nice little widget, which you can utilize, and that's the stream builder widget here
in the body.
Instead of directly outputting the list you, I will output a stream builder widget.
Now again, this comes with flutter.
It's not part of Firebase and you don't have to add it on your own.
It comes with flutter to stream.
Builder Widget takes two key arguments here on its constructor, a stream named argument and a builder
named argument.
The stream argument, as the name suggests, wants a stream.
So we can grab this code here all the way up to snapshots, including snapshots, but excluding the
listen call, because that listening will be handled by flutter with the stream builder.
So we take that code and cut it from down there and add this as a value for stream.
Now, the builder then wants a function which takes to build context and which gets that latest snapshot
we get from the stream, so that latest data snapshot we get from the stream.
So here we have a function that gets to context and this stream snapshot.
And we get a new snapshot whenever the stream changes, so this builder function is executed, whenever
the stream gives us a new value, whenever we get a new value, this function is executed.
And therefore, I'll put my list view builder inside of this function so that the list view is regenerated.
When I get a new value now with regenerated, I still mean that flutter will not go ahead and update
the entire UI.
I just mean that flutter will go ahead and reevaluate DUI and check if something needs to update there.
So this will be very efficient.
So let's grab this list, view builder and return it here inside of this builder function like that.
Now, here, let's actually close it like this year.
So at this extra parenthesis here, remove it there, however, and we can also get rid of that code
down there and get rid of these two closing parentheses here and of the semicolon, use a comma instead
also here and save everything and reformat.
And you should have this code.
So essentially, we now add the stream Boulder connected it to our stream and the find which function
should run whenever this stream gives us a new value.
Now here Stream Snapshot will be our object to get access to that received data.
And we can now replace the hard coded item count here with streams snapshot dot data, which gives us
access to the concrete data we got from the stream dot documents dot length.
The data field will have some documents because the data we're working with is our collection.
So we'll have documents and those documents will have a certain length.
And now is will render as many this works texts as we have documents, so if we save this now, we see
an error down there.
But nonetheless, you see two this works items here, which makes sense because we got two messages.
Now we get an error because that data isn't there right from the start.
Initially, when the request is sent behind the scenes at the data has received no data, is there?
So actually here we should check on the stream snapshot if our connection state is equal to connection
state dot waiting.
Connection state is an object that also comes with flutter and that has this waiting property or to
be precise at CNN, but it has this waiting value, which basically tells us that currently we're still
waiting for some data here and we could return a center, which it with, let's say, a circular progress
indicator here to show this whilst we're waiting for data.
Now, we don't get an error.
If we reload this application, we won't really see the indicator because it load super fast.
But now we do handle that millisecond where no data is there as well.
Now, besides outputting this works, it would, of course, be nicer to output the actual data we have
here.
We can get access to that.
Here we know how to get access to all documents, so I'll actually grab that and stored it in a new
variable here documents.
So that's the documents I get from my stream snapshot.
And I can use that here.
But I can also use it here to get the actual data that's in that document, we can access documents
for the given index index is provided here by the item builder and then access to text field to get
access to the text that's stored inside of a message.
And if we do that and save that and you now see the real messages being output here, and that's, of
course, pretty, pretty nice because this now shows us the data we have here on the backend in our
FIREBASE app.
Lets next see how we can add a new entry and new document by clicking the plus button.